  The United States rebuffed a proposal from China to apply the brakes to an escalating standoff with North Korea, saying positive action was required before it would engage with the irresponsible Kim Jong Un.China was trying to mediate the rising tensions in East Asia, which pit its once-close ally North Korea against the United States and its evolving foreign policy under President Trump.The North Koreans have given us enough reason to think how irresponsible they are, with little cause to believe that were dealing with a rational person on this, said Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. Speaking to reporters Wednesday after an emergency U.N. Security Council meeting on North Korea, she added, We have to see some sort of positive action by North Korea before we can take them seriously.There has been no official Chinese reaction to the snub.Chinas foreign minister, Wang Yi,  Wednesday to suspend missile tests in return for a suspension of U.S.-South Korea military exercises.Wang compared the United States and North Korea to two accelerating trains coming toward each other with neither side willing to give way.He cast China as a railway worker or signalman trying to keep things on track, though U.S. critics argue that China is not a neutralsignalman but Pyongyangs patron.A suspension for suspension deal, Wang argued, was key to preserving peace and getting back to the negotiating table.What he proposed has been pitched before by North Korea and rejected by the United States. But with the Trump administration still fleshing out its foreign policy, some experts wondered whether the proposal had a shot.It did not. Haley said the administration is still deciding how to proceed. I can tell you were not ruling anything out and were considering every option thats on the table, she said.They may need to move quickly. The early months of the Trump presidency have coincided with a surge of tension in Asia.In February, North Korea  a solid-fuel rocket that it claimed was part of an intercontinental ballistic missile capable of hitting the United States.Soon after, the country was linked to the  in Malaysia of Kim Jong Uns half brother, Kim Jong Nam, who had been under Chinese protection.Then, on Monday, as U.S.-South Korean military exercises got underway, Pyongyang  launching four missiles that landed in waters off the Japanese coast.The same night, the United States and South Korea pushed ahead with the long-planned deployment of an antimissile system that China strongly opposes.At the center of this complex and evolving conflict are questions about Chinas ties to North Korea and the U.S. role in East Asian affairs, particularly under Trump.China and North Korea see the presence of U.S. troops in South Korea as the root of regional conflict, and they wantthe United States to acknowledge or address this.The United States and South Korea are focused on the North Korean threat.They say THAAD is a defensive system designed to shoot down North Korean missiles.But China believes that THAAD could be used to spy on Chinese airspace and sees the system as evidence of U.S. military meddling in Asian affairs. After the deployment on Monday, Chinas Foreign Ministry warned of unspecified consequences for the United States and South Korea and has continued to target South Korean business interests.The United States, meanwhile, has pushed for China to play a more assertive role in reining in North Korea.With Chinese leaders outraged over THAAD, the  for the Trump administration will be getting them to abandon their patronage of North Korea. Jin Xin contributed to this report.            