If President Trump is the finicky client describing what he wants for a monstrous wall-building project along the Mexican border, Stephen Colbert is the flummoxed architect trying to fashion a blueprint from his bombastic adjectives.On The Late Show Friday night, Colbert assembled a team of builders to come up with a ballpark estimate of how much it would cost to erect the presidents promised wall.The answer: a lot, based on Trumps descriptions.That wall is going to be so big and so strong and so powerful, then-candidate Trump said at a campaign stop in Holderness, N.H.Impenetrable, physical, tall, powerful, he said in another speech.We know the length of the United States southern border  about 2,000miles, Colbert said  and Trump gave people watching the GOP debate in Houston a sense of how tall it would be: A heck of a lot taller than the ceiling youre looking at.That was all Colbert needed to pull out his whiteboard and start in on some simple calculations.  Colberts efforts are a comedic version of what builders have been doing since Trump was elected after making campaign promises about a massive border wall.U.S. Customs and Border Protection has said it plans to start awarding contracts for the wall by mid-April, . Concept papers were due Friday  its unclear whether Colbert submitted one.The candidate field will be narrowed by March 20, and finalists would submit offers with their proposed costs by March 24.Trump has suggested the wall would cost $12 billion, the AP reported. Republican leaders say it would cost between $12 billion and $15 billion, although an internal Department of Homeland Security report for Secretary John F. Kelly said the final total could reach $21 billion.  Colberts estimate came in a heck of a lot higher  200 million cubic yards of wall, his team of builders concluded, would mean $400 billion  just for concrete.That number more than doubled to $985 billion when the team factored in other costs  12,000 workers, portable concrete plants, a road next to the wall and the cost of draining swamps along the border.Total cost: $2 trillion.But that doesnt account for another of Trumps adjectives: beautiful. Beautifying the border wall would take something like 100 million rolls of wallpaper, one of Colberts experts estimated.Clearly, the costs were adding up. Fortunately  at least for the United States  Trump has announced where he would send the bill.And Colbert had the Mexican Consulate on speed dial.This is Stephen Colbert from The Late Show,  he told the woman who answered the phone. Were trying to come up with just some rough numbers. Obviously, dont hold my feet to the fire over this, but weve got a rough number of $2 trillion to build the border wall and I was wondering if you had that in petty cash right now.