Readers of Today's WorldView are certainlyaware of the prevailing theme of the past year in global politics: the , including the United States. Butwe've discussed the  a bit less.There has been a sense of crisis for quite some time, evenbefore Britain voted to quit the European Union or President Trump,breathing nationalist fire, upset the apple cart in Washington. In 2016, European social-democratic parties . In the United States, Trump's electioncast the Democratic Party  particularly in its cautious, centrist Clintonite form  into the wilderness, with Republicans dominant in both Congress and state-level governments across the country. Aby-election in Copeland, a constituency near the Scottish border, was won by a Conservative candidate for the first time in. It was also the first time in 35 years that a governing party in Britain wrested control of a seat from the opposition between general elections.Welcome to Trudy Harrison: Copelands first Conservative MP since 1935!  Conservatives (@Conservatives) Once the naturalhome of Britain's working class, the Labour Party has seen disaffected voters lured away by anti-immigrant platforms. Itsembattled leader, leftist Jeremy Corbyn, is fighting apitched battle with the moderate factions that have controlled theparty since the ascent of Tony Blair."Labour...between members of a working-class base who want out of the E.U. and a young, urban and progressive contingent that favors staying in,"  my colleague Griff Witte last week. "Corbyn has alienated both factions  reluctantly favoring remain last June and putting up only halfhearted resistance to Mays plans."All the while,  Labour lagging far behind the Conservatives. Some analysts even suggest that Britain under Conservative Prime Minister Theresa May is turning into , with May more concerned about internal divisions on the right than the challenge posed by the left., said Alex Callinicos, a European studies professor at Kings College London, in . Social-democratic parties may have helped fashion Europe's welfare states and enshrined workers' rights, but in recent years, many have become synonymous with the corporatized, faceless establishment."The merger of traditional social democracy with neoliberalism and globalized free-market policies has fallen apart in fairly disastrous fashion," said Callinicos.The situation is also dire for the center-left in the Netherlands, which holds elections this month. The focus there is on the contest between far-right, anti-Muslim candidate Geert Wilders and the country's center-right, classically "liberal" Prime Minister Mark Rutte.Geert Wilders' PVV slips to second place in  poll of polls, two weeks before Dutch election.   Peter Thal Larsen (@peter_tl) The Dutch Labor party, which allied itself with Rutte in a coalition government,. It appears to behemorrhaging voters to both the anti-immigrant far right and to parties further to the left. From commanding the second-biggest block of seats in the Dutch parliament, Labor.Lodewijk Asscher, the Labor party leader anddeputy prime minister, laments the center-left's inability to hold onto its working-class base. "They have felt most of the crisis," said, referring to the toll of the 2008 global financial crisis. "We have to find a solution for that, rather than telling them its all somebody elses fault." , which holds its presidential election in April.French President Francois Hollande, an unpopular Socialist, has been a lame-duck leader for months. The French left, divided intoa constellation ofcompeting personalities and interests, will likelynot be able to rival the bids of far-right leaderMarine Le Pen, centrist Emmanuel Macron or even the center-right's Francois Fillon, who, despite being , still commands greater support than any leftist candidate.Even in countries without ascendantfar-right movements, such as Spain and Italy, the  is hobbled by .The solution, argue some politicians, is a return to the core strengths of left-leaning parties. "The best thing to do is to fight our own battle for social rights, solidarity and equality," , president of the Party of European Socialists, a center-left bloc in the European parliament. "This is our winning strategy and this is where we should aim our powerful left punch.""It is nonsense to suggest that the moderate European left is a political carcass," . "But its electorate is deeply split. One side consists of less well-off voters with conservative social values who feel under siege from E.U. policies and globalization. The other consists of affluent cosmopolitan liberals who like the E.U. and benefit from an open world."There are still possibilities for center-left success in Europe this year. In France, Macron, a former minister in Hollande's government running as an independent outsider, stands a good chance of winningthe presidency; in Germany,the emergence of center-left leader Martin Schultz is forcingGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel  styled now as   to look over her left shoulder for the first time in years.If center-left forces "do respectably in France and Germany," , "a socialist-leaning, and probably more united, Europe will square off against a nationalist-populist U.S." Or, if their victories offer Democrats any inspiration, the center-left's resurgence could come on both sides of the Atlantic.